Have you ever been confronted by a bad report, a false report about Jehovah's people?
It may be a newspaper article or a segment on the evening news, or perhaps some subject
is brought up in the ministry.
It could be a broad range of subjects, our neutral stand, our stand on blood, our adherence
to Jehovah's elevated moral standards and appreciation for the sanctity of marriage,
or our insistence on keeping the congregation clean by disfellowshipping unrepentant wrongdoers.
But whatever the subject, there are some commonalities.
Such reports are often characterized by distortions, inaccuracies, and sometimes outright falsehood.
And inevitably, they're presented with certainty and surety as though they were fact.
But when you're confronted with such a report, how do you feel?
Disheartened, discouraged, angry?
Consider the experience of a pioneer sister who was conducting a Bible study, and in the
course of conducting the study, a woman walked into the house unannounced, she didn't
ring the doorbell, didn't knock.
And as it turned out in a acquaintance of the student, she walked right in and erupted
the Bible study, and in her hand was a book, written by a man who at one time had associated
with Jehovah's people.
The woman said to the student, you need to read this book.
While an interesting conversation ensued, and our sister found herself in the position
of being cast in the role of a deceiver, how did she handle that situation?
And how did the Bible student respond?
Well, before we answer that question, let's see how the words of today's text and surrounding
verses can help us to have the proper view.
Look if you would please, 2 Corinthians chapter 6, and notice verse 4, Paul says, in every
way, we recommend ourselves as God's ministers.
Now what follows is a lengthy series of circumstances and situations that the Apostle Paul faced
in his ministry, and that faithful Christians have faced in their ministry ever since.
In verse 7, the words of today's text, we recommend ourselves as God's ministers,
by truthful speech.
Well, we worship Jehovah, the God of truth.
And we take delight in that.
And as our watchtower comment makes the point, we're truthful in things big and small.
We love the truth.
We love telling the truth about Jehovah.
So it's interesting to note Paul's words in verse 8.
He says through glory and dishonor, through bad report and good report.
And then this intriguing statement.
We are regarded as deceivers, and yet we are truthful.
Now that's an interesting paradox, isn't it?
To be truthful and yet cast in the role of a deceiver.
When we are confronted with a negative report that does that to Jehovah's people, it's
good to remember that Jehovah was the first target of such an attack.
Look in your Bible at Genesis chapter 3, beginning in verse 1.
Now the serpent was the most cautious of all the wild animals of the field that Jehovah
had made.
So it said to the woman, did God really say that you must not eat from every tree of the
garden?
Now we learned something about Satan's method.
He didn't begin with a statement, he began with a question, and not just a question,
a question that was designed to sow seeds of doubt.
Did God really say that?
Now in verses 2 and 3, the woman responds toward the close of verse 3, she actually quotes
Jehovah's command.
You must not eat from it, no, you must not touch it, otherwise you will die.
So she understood the command, and she understood the penalty.
But notice in verse 4, the serpent said to the woman, you certainly will not die.
Now that was a lie, but it was presented with certainty and surety, as though it were
a fact.
And then in verse 5, God knows that in the very day you eat from it, your eyes will be
opened and you will be like God, knowing good and bad.
Satan, the father of the lie, cast Jehovah in the role of a deceiver.
And Jesus experienced similar attacks during his earthly ministry.
And the Apostle Paul was labeled by his opposers as a deceiver.
So when we're confronted with negative faults, reports, we're not surprised.
The question is, how will we respond?
Have you ever considered some questions that Eve could have asked herself that would
have helped her to make a good decision?
Here's one.
What do I know about the person who is the source of this negative report?
What is his motive?
Does he have my best interests at heart?
Or does he have an agenda?
And another question.
Before I accept as truth, a negative report from someone I don't know, is there someone
I do know, someone I trust who I can talk with and get some good advice?
Well Eve certainly could have talked with her husband and together they could have talked
with Jehovah.
And if Eve had asked herself those questions, the world would likely be a much different
place today.
But Eve chose to believe a lie.
How about the pioneer sister and the Bible student that I mentioned earlier?
How did they handle the situation?
Well the pioneer sister told us that she reflected on the fact that she was a guest in the Bible
student's house and so she felt it would be rude for her to interrupt the conversation
so she chose to say nothing.
What did the Bible student do?
Interestingly she asked the woman, do you know the man who wrote that book?
No.
Do you know his motive for writing?
Why would he write such a book?
Well I know this lady who comes and studies the Bible with me and I know her motive is
good so I don't think I need to read your book.
What a beautiful response.
The Bible student got it and we got it too.
We know and we're not surprised that we will be the target of negative reports.
At times we may even be cast in the role of deceivers.
And Jehovah has frankly told us that there are some who are willing to exchange the truth
of God for the lie.
But that will never be true of you or me.
Instead we hold to Jehovah the God of truth.
We continue to recommend ourselves as God's ministers by truthful speech.